     Your answers count!
     This file contains a short questionnaire which shouldn't take more 
than a few minutes. I would appreciate if you would answer the following 
questions. Your answers will indicate to me which games I should be making 
in the future, important things to consider when making a game, and stuff 
like that. When answering, use a standard text editor like DOS's edit 
command or Windows note pad. Please answer in the blank lines provided, 
and email the modified file to daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com.

                                     
                                  Name:
                                     

Age:
Please list your three favourite games (in order from first to third 
  favourite if you could):

     
     
     
     
     Please list the three games you dislike the most (least favourite to 
third least favourite if you could):
     
     
     
     
     If you have double speed, which games seem to work with it on?
     
     
     Again if you have double speed, which games do not work (or work 
differently) with it on? Explain the results.
     
     
     
     
     If you have flash memory on your unit, how do the games operate when 
stored on this media?
     
     
     
     Give a rating from 1 to 5 on how much you enjoy playing the following 
types of games. Your rating should not be on my games themselves which fit 
in to a certain category, but the category itself.
     Classic (mine for example):

two players (chase for example):
board games (gotcha for example):
arcade games (arcade for example):
fighting games (battle or hack for example):
Card games (blackjack for example):
Text adventures:
Sports games (ball for example):
Games versus the computer (like in Gotcha or Ball):

     The remainder of this file can be used to write comments to me. What 
do you think of the overall game pack I have made? Which games should be 
added or updated in the future? Are you satisfied with the games 
performance on your note taker (for instance, speed problems)? Please make 
honest comments. Thanks for taking the time to fill out the questionnaire.
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
