            Dan's Basic Games 2.52 (daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com)

     
     ... And people thought note takers could only take notes!
     
     Welcome to my Basic games collection. These games, I believe, are  
fun, challenging and easy to play. These games are all copyright 1999-2003 
by  Daniel Zingaro. I take no responsibility for damages caused in any way by the use or misuse of these  
games. They have been tested and work fine on my note taker, but I make no  
such guarantee for other note takers. Any other side effects caused by the  
playing of these games (for instance, change in personality, or violent  
ideas obtained) are the responsibility of the user, and not the author. If  
you have any comments or questions, mail me at daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com 
and let me  know! These games are mainly for those long drives in the car, 
or perhaps  those boring biology classes you go to every day (grin). 
Basically, I want  you to have some fun with your note taker! As I get 
more feedback, games  will be updated, new games will be added, and maybe 
the weaker games will  be removed. This is version 2.52 and includes 
seventeen games. I will tell  you now that you will find bugs in these 
games. Don't worry, mail me with  the bug and I'll spray the repellant.
     To run these games, you must have run.bns (included in this archive) installed on your note  
taker. Also, you must have the game you want to play on your note taker. Then, to run a game, type o  
chord, x, run, space, followed by the game name. All of my games will be  
discussed now. The games all worked fine on my Bns 640 updated in 1994, 
and work just as well on the December 1999 update I use now. I  have my 
punctuation set to "some" and my speech is at the second fastest  rate.

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Recall

     
     Recall is a game like Simon--except this one's got two games in one!  
You can play the traditional Simon game where you memorize and repeat the  
pattern of sounds, or you can play my version, where you remember numbers  
instead. This is also good news for BLT40 users, as they can now benefit  
from this game! When playing the numerical version, note that you must  
repeat the pattern by typing in the actual number (for example, dot 2 for  
number 1, dots 2 and 3 for number 2, and so on) and not simply the dot  
associated with that number. For the sound version, you'll have to know  
which key produces which sound; press l from the main menu to learn this.  
If the game seems too easy for you, try increasing the number of sounds to  
use, or the game difficulty.

                                     
                                                                          
                                   Bomb

     
     This is a game which has a similar objective to mine sweeper.  
Basically, you try and uncover all squares, by pressing c, which don't  
have a bomb on them. If you uncover a square which does have a bomb on it,  
you lose and the game is over. This game could take a bit getting used to, 
but once you do, it's very fun! It includes online instructions, and you  
get to select the number of bombs to place on the board.


                                     
                                                                          
                                  Chase

     
     A two player game on one note taker? Yes; it's called chase! Player 1  
and 2 alternate moves, attempting to kill the other player. You play on a  
10x10 grid and you can drop bombs on your square, to the right or to the  
left of you. A player dies when they step on a bomb. Online instructions  
available.

                                     
                                                                          
                                   Ball

     
     This is, I guess, a sort of football game. You complete plays to get  
points; getting to yard 100 gets you a touchdown (7 points) and a field  
goal gets you 3 points. You have 50 turns to see how many points you can  
get. You can also play against the computer by answering "y" (or "d" for a  
more difficult opponent) to the first question asked. Addicting! Online  
instructions available.

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Battle

     
     This is one of my favourite games! You fight a series of 20 enemies  
and you basically try and kill them all. If your power goes to 0, you die;  
same with your enemy. Before every fight, you pick a weapon which will  
increase your stats or decrease your enemy's. When you win a fight, you  
are usually given a special bonus, and there are even magic spells you can  
use! Have fun with this one!

                                     
                                                                          
                                   Tic

     
     Another two player game, this time a clone of the old classic,  
tictacto! Online instructions available, but you basically try and get 3  
x's (player 1) or 3 o's (player 2) across, down or diagonally. When you  
move, you are first told your current row (up and down) and column (left  
to right) and then, if taken up, the letter (x or o) on that square.  
Undocumented feature: type the numbers 1, 2, or 3 to jump quickly to that  
row!

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Point

     
     Point Rally is a game where you play mini games to get points. Sort  
of the same objective as ball; see how many points you can get in ten  
turns. Some games are sound oriented, others are guessing games, and some  
games even make you think a bit!

                                     
                                                                          
                                     

Arcade

     
     It's finally ready! The fastest, most frantic game ever created on  
the note takers! This game will have your fingers (and brain) working over  
time as you desperately try to hit the correct key before your time is up!  
The greatest game I have ever made! Online instructions are available!  
This game has twenty levels, and you can even make your own. Basically,  
you rely on your reaction time to press keys very quickly. For instance,  
if the unit says Hole, you press j to jump over it. When the unit says  
enemy, you press a to attack it. If a tree arises, press c to climb it. If  
the note taker tells you a lion is there, press h to hide! If you must  
swim through water, press s. To walk across a street, press w. If the unit  
says boulder, press d to duck. When you are asked for a password while  
entering the game, type in a password you were given (when you got to a  
high enough level) or hit any chord if you don't know a password. The  
levels get quicker, faster, and most of all, more fun! I myself can't stop  
playing this one! To make your own levels, create a computer braille file,  
with the first line being a number of the amount of levels in the file.  
The next line should be a description line, describing the current level.  
Next, you must type a number on a line by itself for the speed of the  
level (4 being almost the fastest, 3 giving the user almost no time at  
all, 30 being pretty slow). For the remainder of the level, place one  
character per line, depending on what you want the user to do. For  
example, place a j on a line by itself to make the user encounter a hole  
(so he must jump). Place a c on a line by itself to make the user  
encounter a tree, so he must climb it, and so on. After ten such lines,  
place another description line for the next level in your file (if the  
first number in your file was greater than 1, of course). Continue the  
same way you made the previous level, with the speed on a line by itself,  
followed by ten one letter lines telling the program what the user must  
do. For a random event (the program picks a hole, tree, enemy, lion, etc.  
randomly) place rand as one of the ten lines of a level which instruct the  
program on what the user must do. To place a fake, make one of the ten  
lines begin with the word fake, followed by the fake out text to be  
spoken, followed by the actual thing the user must do. For example, a line  
reading fakewaterw would make the program say water, and then say street,  
since the last letter was a w, so the user must walk. To pause or slow  
down the level for a specified time, place a line in the file where you  
want the level to pause. This line must contain the word pause, followed  
by a two digit number (no space after pause and the number). The number is  
the number of cycles to pause the level for (30 being about one second).  
Note that a pause line does not count as one of the ten objectives of the  
level, so you still must have ten one letter lines in the level. When you  
have finished, run arcade, and when prompted for a password, type in cre  
and next, the filename containing the levels. You can make as many levels  
in this fashion as you like! A file called levels.arc has been distributed 
with this package, and it is a sample set of levels which you can learn  
from. If you like, you can send me your levels! If I like them, I'll  
include them in the package! Give levels to your friends who also have  
these games, and see if they can beat them! Nonstop fun, that's all I can  
say!

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Gotcha

     
     Are you ready? Introducing: The first board game for the Blazie note  
takers! ... And much more than a board game at that. Just read these  
features, and I think you'll agree:


- The .bas file is 5 pages!
- Up to four players can play, and they can be any mixture of human  
    and computer players! You can have all human players, a mixture of 
    human  and computer players, or watch some computer players play! You 
    can even  play a one player game!
- Save your game to a file, and restore it later!
- The board has 60 positions, many which have interesting events  
    associated with them 
- Computer players can actually pose a challenge to human  
    players--smart artificial intelligence routines are present!
- You have the option of specifying when the game will end 
- Players can easily view players locations, money, what the game goes  
    up to, and much, much more!
- Many random events--two games are never the same!

     The point of this game is to gain money--by stealing, by getting  
jobs, by assisting others--any way you can think of! At the start of the  
game, you are asked for the amount of money a person has to get to win.  
When a person reaches this amount, they are claimed the winner, and the  
game ends. Every player continues to roll dice, move around the board, and  
attempt to get money until the game ends. However, the ways players get  
money are very interesting, how about some of these events:

- Get a job at a shop and get paid every turn
- Look after kids in a day care and get paid
- Rob the bank if you want to take the risk (you are first told the  
    percent chance of success!)
- Rob sports equipment from tennis courts, or baseball diamonds and  
    trade them in for money later 
- Catch up with the fairy who moves on every player's turn and get  
    some money from her 
- Capture hostages and trade them in for cash 
- Search houses for money 
- Get good luck points from churches and get more money!
- Rob certain places, and have other players bet on whether they think  
    you will be successful or not! Very interesting and fun!
- Search garbage dumps in desperation for cash And many, many, many 
    more! When you are told to press a key to roll,  you can press 
    question mark (dots 1, 4, 5, 6) for a list of commands, or  hit 
    z-chord to exit or save your current game to a file. If you save a  
    game to a file which already exists, the previous contents of the file  
    will be destroyed. So, I suggest using a filename ending in .got or  
    something else which will distinguish it from other files of more  
    importance. When asked for player's names at the beginning, press 
    e-chord  (leaving the name blank) to fill the remaining player slots 
    with computer  opponents. Sound interesting enough? Try this one 
    today!

                                     
                                                                          
                                   Hack

     
     The long awaited Hack has been created! In this game, you start off  
as a BNS Classic with only 300 KB of RAM. But, by defeating other note  
takers, your unit will increase in memory, and weaponry! Along with  
hacking other note takers, you can search the Internet for hacking advice,  
talk to other hackers, update your note taker with disks that you find,  
and more! You must fight a level master at the end of every level; a  
really mean note taker! If you manage to hack this note taker, you beat  

the level, and your model is upgraded. There are five levels, but they are  
not easy. From the main menu, you can press g to go shopping, f to fight  
an enemy, m if you think you're ready to battle the level master, s for  
statistics, or i to visit the hacker's inn! After you win a fight, you are  
given some money, and if you "super hacked" your opponent (which is a  
random thing) you will also get a disk from which you can increase your  
note taker's capabilities. When you go shopping, you can purchase RAM  
upgrades, macros, viruses, warm and cold resets, even unit melters;  
anything that will allow you to hack the life out of your opponent! Very  
fun and challenging!

                                     
                                                                          
                                   Word

     
     Until now, I've skipped over a very popular game type--fun,  
educational word games. Word is just that; many fun word games in one!  
When you run the game, you will be presented with a menu. Simply select  
the letter of the game you want. Word scrambler, the first game, is a fun  
game where a word is entered by the first player, scrambled by the note  
taker, and presented to the other player in scrambled form. That player  
must then think of what the original word was by going through possible  
combinations in his head. This can be a two player game, but also a one  
player game. For a one player game, when asked for the word, type a period  
and then the filename (more on this later). The next game, Hang Guy, is  
just like the classic Hangman game--a word is entered or selected from a  
file, and the other player has a set number of guesses in which to figure  
out the word. Again, this can be a one or two player game by using a file  
containing the words for one player. The next game, Memory, is similar to  
the Concentration game show. The note taker randomly places two sets of  
twelve prizes on a twenty-four square board, and you have to pair up the  
two matching prizes by selecting the corresponding numbers. Next, we've  
got a game called Word Tower. If you select a one player game, the words  
are retrieved from the specified file. First, a word is retrieved and you  
have to type in what that word is. Then, another word is retrieved, and  
you have to enter the first word and the second word. A third word is  
taken from the file, and you now have to recite all three. This pattern  
continues until you can no longer remember all of the words, and you get  
one wrong. This game is almost identical in two player mode, except the  
players enter the words, and they are not retrieved from a file. Also, I  
have created a game called Quickword, which is strictly a two player game.  
When you select it, you enter the file where the words can be found. The  
note taker randomly selects a word, and begins spelling it out to the two  
players. The first person who knows what the word is presses his key (dot  
1 for player one, dot 4 for player two) and types in his guess. If it is  
right, he wins; if not, the other player wins. When a constant clicking  
sound is heard, players should stop pressing any keys, because this means 
that some one will be guessing the word, or that no one can guess anymore  
(the entire word has been spelled out). Finally, deduction is a game where  
you try to guess the pattern of letters which the note taker has selected.  
First, you'll be asked for the number of letters you want to use. So, for  
example, if you enter 10, the letters a through j will be used. The  
maximum you can enter is 26 for the entire alphabet. Next, you'll have to  
enter the word length, and finally, the number of players. You will then  
be asked to type in your guess. Let us say that you type in abcde for your  
guess. If any of those letters are in the correct spot in the sequence of  
letters, you will be told so. Continue guessing, eliminating letters and  
combinations, until you come up with the correct combination. The maximum  
word length in any game which uses words is thirty characters (this also  
refers to words in a file). In Word Tower, if thirty words are correctly  
identified, the game ends and is considered a tie in two player mode or a  
win in one player mode. Whenever you want to retrieve words from a file,  
you will have to enter a filename. All word file databases end with the  
extension .wds. I have included three small databases: sports.wds,  
general.wds, and computer.wds. So, if you want to use the sports database,  
just enter the filename as sports, because .wds is inserted automatically  
after the filename you enter. By quick examination, you'll realize that  
the format of a word database is simple: the first line is the total  
number of words in the file, and subsequent lines contain one word per  
line.

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Races

     
     The Races is a horse racing simulation. The point of the game is to  
bet on the horse you think will win, but also taking odds into 
consideration. For instance, if a horse has five to one odds, he will have  
less of a chance to win against one with one to one odds but will pay more  
if he wins. In the text game style, whenever a horse moves, his number is  
spoken. Similarly, the volume game style speaks the horses number every  
time he moves at the respective volume according to how far he has moved.  
The sound mode plays a different sound for every horse, whenever a  
specific horse moves. This game can be played by one to four players, and  
you can set it to play until a certain amount of money is reached by a  
player, or until some one bets correctly a certain number of times.

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Click

     
     Watch out! The clicks are coming! It's wave after wave of action in  
Click Invaders; 100 waves in all and five difficulties! The object of the  
game may seem easy and childish, but I assure you, you will not be  
thinking that when you get to a high enough wave. Let's take you through  
wave 1; the first wave you play when you enter the easy zone of the game.  
Clicks will begin to be heard, starting at a low volume, and increasing in  
volume on every click. Once ten clicks have been heard, hit spacebar. You  
will then move on to wave 2, which is faster than wave 1. To pass this  
one, again hit spacebar after the tenth click. If you do not press  
spacebar there, you will notice that the game cycles back to the first  
click at the lowest volume. You do not lose a life when this happens early  
on in the game, but later you will. Once you get high enough, you will  
have to press space at different times. Wave 16, for example, produces 
twelve clicks before cycling back to the first one. So, after twelve  
clicks have been produced, hit space. Starting from this level, if you let  
the clicks cycle back to the lowest volume, you lose a life. However,  
since different sets of waves produce different numbers of clicks, this  
may be a good strategy to determine the amount of clicks you are waiting  
for. Also realize that when levels get really fast, it is necessary to  
press the spacebar immediately on the correct click. Since the key is  
recognized when it is released, my strategy is to press the spacebar right  
before the right click is produced, so by the time you release the key,  
the click has just been heard. Strategy is everything! You can create your  
own Click Invaders games also. Create a computer braille file ending in  
.clk: the first line is the number of waves in the file, and the next line  
is how many lives the user starts with. The third line will contain the  
number of waves which will have the characteristics you set for them in  
the following lines. You are basically grouping waves, as I did in the  
game, which have similar characteristics, as this saves you lots of  
typing. On the next line, place the number of clicks which must be sounded  
before the user should press space to pass the wave. Place the letter r  
before the number for the program to generate a random number of clicks  
from 1 to that number. The next line contains a 1 or a 0: a 0 means the  
clicks start at a low volume and get louder, a 1 reverses this pattern as  
the clicks start high and descend in volume. The next line contains the  
amount to delay after every click (30 is a second); to disallow delaying,  
enter 0. Following this line, enter the amount of lives a user loses if he  
presses space at the incorrect time. The next line holds the percent  
chance (0 to 100) of starting the clicks over again from the start of the  
cycle. The final line of the current group is the number of lives a user  
loses when the clicks cycle back to the beginning. You may repeat this  
process with another block of waves, until you have made the amount of  
waves you specified on the first line. The last line contains a  
congratulations message for the user if he beats the game. When trying to  
load a home made file into the game, do not specify a file extension, as  
.clk is provided.

                                     
                                                                          
                                  Trivia

     
     How much do you know about a given topic? Find out by playing trivia!  
All questions for this game come from external question files all ending  
in .trv. There is one included now called math.trv. To create your own  
trivia files, create a computer braille file ending in .trv. The first  
line includes the number of questions, and the next line includes the  
number of possible answers for the user to choose from for every question  
(the maximum is nine). Next, you will enter the question information. The  
format of this is the actual question followed on subsequent lines by the  
possible answers and finally the number of the correct answer (1 to 9).  
This game will be further developed in the future.

                                     
                                                                          
                                   DHL

     
     Dan's Hockey League is a killer hockey game for the Blazie notetakers 
in which you test your skill against a computer opponent. There are five 
difficulty levels to choose from, ranging from super easy to almost 
impossible. When you start the game, you'll be asked for some information 
about your team. After you name the team and the players that will be on 
the team, you'll have to distribute point values to players. The number of 
points you give the player reflects how accurate the player passes the 
puck, or in the case of a goalie, how well he can save the puck. The 
maximum you can give one player is ten points. Once the game starts, you 
can choose to pass, shoot, move, or get stats. Passing the puck is 
necessary to move up the ice, and thus increase your chance of shooting on 
target. Moving allows you to skate around the ice, and disorient the other 
team, thus increasing your chance of completing a pass. Shooting the puck 
should only be attempted when close enough to the opponent's net, 
otherwise the shot will most likely miss the target. Selecting info will 
tell you how much time is remaining in the game, the score in the game, 
and so on. Once you beat the computer on the first few difficulties, try 
the harder ones. You'll be playing over and over again trying to beat the 
artificially intelligent opponent!

                                     
                                     

                                     
                                 Pinball

     
     You no longer have to go to the arcades to play this one, cause now 
it's right on your Blazie notetaker! This game cannot be played by Braille 
Lite 40 users, because it relies entirely on sound. Descending tones 
indicate how close the ball is to your flipper. When it gets close enough 
to hit, press dot 1 if the ball is on the left side, and dot 4 if it is on 
the right side. You can learn which side the ball is coming down by 
pressing s when you start the game. If the ball is not close enough, your 
flipper will do nothing, and it will keep falling closer and closer. When 
you miss the ball, and a click is sounded, you lose that ball and a new 
one begins to fall (you start with five). If the ball is hit perfectly 
multiple times (meaning it was right at the lowest pitch), you get a 
special bonus. Have fun!
     
                                     
                                  Stock                                     

     Ever wanted to buy and sell stocks, but didn't want to send your last 
pay cheque up in flames? Now you can play a stock simulator on your Blazie 
notetaker. When you run the stock simulator, you will be presented with a 
menu allowing you to buy, sell, or list stock prices. Once you're done 
your trading for the day, you can press "n" for the next day. Every day, 
all of the stocks prices will increase or decrease, and the object of the 
game is to see how much money you can end off with after thirty days!    
     
     If you have any comments, feature or new game requests, or questions,  
email me. Just a few words of warning now. Do not use upper case letters  
when answering prompts. Also, only use computer braille (dropped numbers  
with no number signs for example). If I forgot to program a  quit command 
for a certain game, just hit z chord a few times rapidly to  quit. While 
playing arcade, point rally, recall, or any other game with  sound turned 
on, I suggest turning off double speed if you have it. If you  try it with 
double speed on, please email me with the results as I do not  have double 
speed so could not test this. Please fill in the file called  answer.txt; 
it is a short questionnaire which will let me know what I  should be doing 
in future versions of the games. If you'd like to assist  at all in the 
development of games, I urge you to send me home made arcade  or Click 
Invaders levels, word databases, and trivia question databases.  My email 
address is daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com so send me some feedback please! 
Thanks  for reading and have fun!
