                         So, What's New in V1.6?

     Well, this release is a very minor one. I mainly released it to fix 
up a few problems in version 1.5, and to fix the compatibility problems 
with the blt40. I decided to try and fix all of the existing problems 
before I create (or totally modify) an existing game.

*Enhansements*

     Mine has a new name (Bomb Field) and the filename is now bomb.bas. I 
removed some useless code from the game also.
     In hack, I fixed that negative fight counter problem (which caused no 
harm anyway), and rewrote some of the store code.
     You now get to choose whether you want sound or not in tic, and I 
rewrote some of the code for speed improvements.
     You can now specify whether or not you want sound in chase, and I 
fixed a bug where it wouldn't tell you if player 2 dropped a bomb to the 
right.
     Bt (buried treasure) is now called point rally (with a new filename 
of point.bas) because the game dealt more with points than with treasure 
anyway. I added  two new killer games (marathon and Point Plunge) and 
changed Count your Luck and Lucky Guess to more exciting games (well, at 
least I thought so). I also fixed a problem with the bonus round. Other 
games have been modified to give more points also. Finally, I added a 
Massive Gain event which can reward you with tons of points.
     I fixed a problem in battle where the speech would become choppy if 
sound was off. If this happens in any other game, please let me know. I 
also added another stat (your strongest hit).
     Yikes! I fixed a problem in Gotcha which forced the program to stop 
running when the computer landed on some one's house. I also fixed the bug 
where, if you landed on the hospital and you didn't have the money 
dropping syndrome, it would still tell you that you were cured of it. I 
changed the code around where you roll dice so speech is less choppy and 
things go faster (also did this to the busy street).
     Arcade.lev now has one more sample level in it using the pause 
command.
     I updated games.txt to include more information for some of the 
games.

                                     
                                Coming Up

     Well, I'm not exactly sure what I'm going to do with the future of 
these games. I've got no all star ideas of my own right now, but some 
people have given me some ideas. One person suggested a base ball game; 
which would be quite a challenge to program. I've got to get Point working 
with the blt40 sooner or later; but it's not as easy as the other games 
were because portions of it are sound oriented, which cause the blt40 to 
shut off. I've also been asked to allow the user to save his hack game in 
progress to a file and restore it later; just like what you can do in 
Gotcha. This is certainly logical, because a user's game could end up 
being a long one. Of course, I'm going to try to improve the existing 
games as much as I can (speed, bugs, small additions). Well, who knows, I 
may add some of this stuff in the next release. What do you think of these 
suggestions anyway? Do you have your own suggestions? Please let me know 
at daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com! I would also appreciate you filling in the file 
called answer.txt and mailing me your responses.
