     What's new In Dan's Basic Games v1.5?
     Are you ready to play v1.5 of Dans Basic Games? In this release, I 
centered on bug fixes, and small improvements to the games I have already 
made. But, there are some great new games also! I would like to thank you 
once again for donating and hope that you will enjoy playing this release.
     *ENHANCEMENTS*
     Many enhancements have been made to this release--compliments to the 
Bnsbasic list subscribers for many of these! My personal thanks to Tom Ley 
and Aman Singer for pointing out and giving solutions to the blt40 sound 
problem. Mine, ball, hack, arcade, gotcha, and battle now all work with 
the Braille Lite 40 units, so have fun! Thanks again to Tom Ley for 
allowing me to use true Blazie note taker names in Hack--I appreciate 
that.
     First of all, in Battle, I have added a congratulations message and 
sound after you beat the game, added another starting choice (more power), 
fixed a math problem when getting perfect wins, added two enemies, added 
an option to turn sound on or off, and added another weapon selection! In 
addition, I have fixed a problem where fights would end and no one was 
dead. Also, you can press s from the weapon selection prompt to get stats 
about the last fight.
     In Ball, you can now play against the computer, and while it's his 
turn, you can press dots 1-2-3-4-5-6 to get info or x to exit. I have also 
added some key trapping routines so your score and other important prompts 
are not missed as much. Finally, I have added an option to turn sound on 
or off.
     In buried treasure, I have added six  more fun games (including 
paper, rock, scissors, 21, darts, and more) plus a periodic bonus round!
     In an attempt to gain speed in Mine, I rewrote tons of it's code.  I 
fixed a bomb calculation error where one more bomb than asked for would be 
placed. When asked for the number of bombs, you can now press e-chord for 
a default of 10. While playing, you can press a chorded dropped number to 
move to the number's column. Finally, there is now an option of having 
sound or not.

                                     
                               *New Games*

     The long awaited games are ready--so enjoy!
     I have added a surprise game called gotcha--which I believe is the 
first board game to be created for the note takers. Up to 4 players can 
play, in any mixture of human and computer players. You can save the game 
to a file and restore it later. You play on a huge board, there are many 
events which can occur, and you can even select the length of the game! 
... And that's just the beginning. Examine the file games.txt for a 
complete description, along with playing instructions.
     The much awaited game called Hack has been created, and included in 
this release. You start as a BNS classic, and fight through five intense 
levels of note takers until you reach your ultimate destiny, the blt40! 
Visit the hacker's inn, search the Internet for hacking advice, talk to 
other hackers, add memory and better weapons to your note taker by using 
update disks which you can find along the way or with money you get from 
destroying other note takers. Every level has a level master--a real mean 
note taker. Destroy your enemy using macros, viruses, cold resets--even 
unit melters! To win this one, you'll have to beat the meanest, toughest 
note taker ever--the Powerbraille! You can view your stats (memory, model, 
weapons, disks), and if your in a desperate situation, you can even 
attempt to run away from your opponent note taker! Examine games.txt for 
complete information and playing instructions.
     My first arcade style game has been included--and it's called arcade! 
It has twenty levels built in, with passwords given every few levels. You 
can even create your own levels! This one is furiously fast, and your 

fingers will be flying like crazy around those keys! The farther you get, 
the more difficult and frantic the levels become. Examine the file 
games.txt for a complete description and playing instructions.
     If you have any questions or comments, please email me at 
daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com and let me know!
