                     Dan's BASIC Games version 2.5...

     
     Welcome. You'll find a few cool enhancements in this version; I 
realize it's not the big 3.0 I promised. Although it's been fun coding 
these games for the past few years, I feel that it is time for me to move 
on. You have been a great client, and I appreciate your support. Without 
your feedback, these games wouldn't have evolved to the state they are at 
now; I doubt anyone would disagree that they are the best games available 
for the note takers. I'm honored to have personally communicated with all 
of my clients; to me, you aren't an email address or an aspect number, but 
a person who has their own views and comments regarding a product. I made 
my share of mistakes (such as the Braille Lite 40 sound shut off problem, 
a corrupted trivia.bas file in version 2.0, and Arcade not working 
properly on blt2000 units) but you never showed any disrespect or 
aggravation; you explained the problem and even gave me possible 
solutions! It's not often that clients realize the fact that every one 
makes mistakes, and in this day and age, I think all programmers deserve 
the respect you showed me. If everyone showed this much courtesy, there 
would be no miscommunication between the seller and the buyer. Thank you 
for making my first business endeavor a fun and enjoyable learning 
experience. My motivation level has dropped in regard to coding these 
games, I'm finding it hard to come up with new ideas, and I want to 
officially sign off now. If absolutely necessary, updates will be created 
to fix bugs, but that's it. All the best... And don't forget to keep 
gaming! Email me at my new address, daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com if you have 
any comments. Peace, and God bless.

                                     
                                                                          
                              *Enhancements*

     
     Dhl has been given a few splashes of functionality, including a coin 
toss to start the game, faster game play, and a smarter computer opponent; 
in fact, a serious bug was fixed which made the computer play like garbage 
in the last version. Some minor changes were also made.
     Tic has a new enhanced game mode, in which the contents of a square 
is randomly removed. This should make the game more fun, because two pros 
playing won't always end in a tie now! Some code has been cleaned also.
     Gotcha hasn't been updated in a while, so I ran through the entire 
thing optimizing code. Unfortunately, I had done such a good job the first 
time that all I could do without rewriting major parts of it was shave off 
300 bytes from the game and speed up game play slightly. You probably 
won't notice any difference, but I had to write this for my own psyche.

                                     
                                                                          
                               *New Games*

     
     A stock simulation game has been created; sell and buy stocks 
according to price gains and losses. Hit games.txt for further 
information. And no, there is no benefit in buying the first stock.
     
     That's it. I now plan to develop Windows software, and have a few 
titles lined up for creation already. Hit my new URL, 
http://danssoft.freeservers.com, for the latest stuff I'm working on.
