               What's New in Dan's Basic Games version 2.0?

     Welcome to version 2.0, the fourth release of my games. This is a 
major upgrade from version 1.6! You'll find some exciting new titles 
included in this release which I have spent many months on. As always, 
there are also some enhancements to existing games. I would like to take 
this time to thank you, and every one else, who has donated. You people 
are the one's that keep me programming with your comments and compliments 
(well, ok, the criticisms also). Have fun, and have a Merry Christmas! (Oh 
no! I forgot to make a Christmas game!)

*Enhansements*

     I optimized the code in battle a bit, added a few more instructions, 
and added another stat (enemy's strongest hit) to the stats command. 
Thanks to a suggestion from Stephen Clower, you now have the option of 
fighting with verbose mode on or off. When on, the game functions just as 
before. When off, fighting text is brought down to a minimum. Press v at 
the weapon selection prompt to toggle the option off and on. You can also 
press s while fighting to get "stats" on the fight (your power and enemy's 
power). This is useful if you want to know how much power you or the enemy 
has, and you've turned verbose mode off.
     I moved the command to get instructions in ball from the actual game 
into the first question (press i as before) because it slowed down the 
game and was not used enough to be kept there. I also fixed some speech 
problems with the instructions, and changed some of the code of the game. 
Now, when it's the computer's turn, any key will get you information on 
the game, so it is not necessary to press all six keys anymore. This also 
benefits some people who were having trouble using this command. The x 
command still exits the game, but user's who have problems using this can 
just hit z-chord a few times as always to quit. I have added some new 
functionality to the game also; you can now press d when you are asked if 
you want to play against the computer to have the computer play more 
difficultly. As a side note, I fixed the problem which created choppy 
speech when a touch down was scored and sound was off.
     Arcade.lev is now called levels.arc; I want to start having some 
consistency with file extensions.

*New Games*

     New games? You bet! Enjoy!
     I have created a new game called word.bas. Before I explain this one, 
I want you to picture me sitting down to do a computer contest. As you may 
know, computer programming contests (like the last one I took) are long, 
frustrating, and very challenging. The contestants have to deal with any 
errors they may get, and they have to develop there own reliable, fast 
methods to solve problems. This game was an example of that. It may seem 
like a simple game to make, but it is definitely the most challenging game 
I have ever had to program. This game is actually a collection of fun, 
entertaining, and educational word games. Currently there are six games: 
word scrambler, hang guy, memory, word tower, quickword and deduction. All 
applicable games can be set to one or two player mode, and can accept a 
word from the user or read them from a database (there are three included 
in the package). Please see games.txt for further information.
     Thank goodness this one was a bit easier to program! I dreamed up 
another new one; The Races (races.bas). This is a game where 1 to 4 
players bet on horse races. It's only one page in size, but it's still 
packed with features. For instance, there are three game styles, and two 
different methods of claiming a winner. It's fun; try it! Remember to 
check games.txt for game information.
     Oh no! The clicks are coming! I have created a game called Click 

Invaders. This game features 100 waves of action, five difficulty levels, 
and all of the tricks I could think of to keep you playing. I made this 
game roughly along a version of space invaders I played quite a long time 
ago. The main point of the game is to press the spacebar when the click 
sound reaches it's highest volume for that particular wave. If you press 
spacebar at the correct time, you move to the next wave; if not, you lose 
a life. The first 15 or so levels are nice and easy, and give you lots of 
time to hit spacebar when the clicks have reached their highest volume. 
But, by the time you get past wave 50, you won't believe how fast and 
tricky the levels are and how many tricks I employed. If this game doesn't 
sound fun yet, please try it; I'm almost positive you'll be playing this 
one nonstop! Check games.txt for complete game info.
     Sim.bas has been deleted. I just got annoyed and pretty well 
embarrassed with that slow and useless program, for which I had lost the 
source code anyway. Don't panic though; recall.bas has been included to 
replace it. It has many more options (including two game styles and a ton 
of difficulty levels), is much faster, plays nicer sounds (no more head 
aches), increases the game speed as you play, and, yes, one of the game 
styles will even work on the blt40! The new game style, to accompany the 
classic Simon style, is one where you memorize and repeat a pattern of 
numbers, and not sounds at all! Even though there is so much new 
functionality, the game is still only one page in size! Games.txt has 
further details.
     Yet another new one? This time it's a trivia game; trivia.bas. It's 
only one page, but that's because all of it's data comes from external 
question files. This means that you can create your own files with however 
many questions you like, with up to nine choices for the user to guess 
from. This game will become more fun when I create or receive more 
question databases. Currently there is just one trivia question file, 
math.trv. This game is in it's early stage of development, so features are 
currently limited.

                                     
                               *Coming Up*

     You should expect the next version (2.2) to be a minor release; I'll 
call it a clean up version. I want to kill all of the bugs that may have 
snuck in in this version, as well as add any small features that I find 
would be useful. The file handling in word.bas is very sloppy, and the 
code for some games could use a little optimizing. I want to make more 
databases for word, and of course, increase the existing ones. There is 
currently no sample level file for click invaders; I plan on making one of 
these also. I will make more trivia question files, and add more to the 
math one. Trivia.bas, as I previously said, is in it's early stages of 
development, and I plan to add lots more features to it: a command to 
repeat the questions and answers, additional types of quizzes (true and 
false, complete answer) and so on. If I think it is necessary, I will 
create a utility.bas program which will automate the creation of word 
databases, arcade levels, click invader games, trivia databases, etc. I 
can't give you a release date for the next version, as I don't know how 
much time I will have. My long term plans include creating more games for 
Word, a baseball or hockey game, and a few surprises (hmmm, what could Dan 
be thinking of now?)! Please email me at daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com with  
questions or comments.
