                          New in DBG version 2.2

     
     Welcome to the first game update for the year 2000! It's not really a 
major upgrade, but there should be enough new stuff to keep you up for at 
least a few nights. There have been a number of enhancements made, as well 
as two exciting  new games! Have fun!
     
     
                                     
                              *Enhancements*
     
     
     Trivia.bas now works; in the last version, a corrupted copy somehow 
snuck in. The byte count comparison I do to check the size of a game on 
the BNS and then on my PC after transferring it was successful, so I 
didn't even check the .bas file to make sure it was ok. The funny thing 
was that it was also corrupted on my BNS when I later checked. I'm not 
exactly sure why I bored you with that, but I guess I learned my lesson... 
The important thing to notice is that Trivia Challenge now allows you to 
leave certain answers to questions unused. Simply write "not used", in 
lower case and without the quotes, to have the program skip reading that 
answer. This is useful if you have a trivia file where most of the 
questions have the same number of answers, but a few have less.
     The code of point.bas has been optimized a bit, and the game Rapid 
Keys has been changed; in previous versions of Rapid Keys, the keyboard 
buffer would fill up and you would be hitting keys for no reason. Now you 
type keys into a variable, and you are timed on how long you took and 
given points accordingly. You can press keys as fast as you want, and you 
will never get ahead of the notetaker anymore. In previous versions, 
clicking sounds indicated that the keyboard buffer was full and the keys 
you were typing were just discarded. There is a new game called double 
double (and no, it's not a cup of coffee) in which you can keep going for 
more points for a maximum of over 8000! I also added a game called take 
your chance in which you can gain or lose a good deal of points according 
to different chance values; it's fun! And finally, after five versions of 
this game, it now works on the Braille Lite 40 units; there is an option 
to turn off sound oriented games. This will also be valuable to people 
with other notetakers if sound would not be appropriate at a certain time 
(yes, the classroom is an example). I have managed to only disallow two 
games from working when sound is off--not bad!
     The keys in Recall now produce sounds in order from lowest to highest 
pitch as they should. I rewrote some code in the sound game and the 
portion where you can learn the sounds. You can now leave the first 
question asked in the number or sound game blank; this will use the values 
you used last time you played that certain game. This does not preserve 
settings once you quit the game; it only works if you play again and you 
haven't quit Recall in between.




                                     
                               *New Games*


     Surprise! There's a new game included, and it's called dhl.bas. It's 
a hockey game (Dan's hockey league) in which you face an intelligent 
computer opponent. There are five difficulty levels, you have the ability 
to configure your team to your liking, and it works on all of the 
notetaker styles! Get the full scoop in games.txt.

     The second new game included is called pinball.bas. Descending tones 
indicate how close the ball is getting to you, and you have to use the 
correct key (depending on which side the ball is falling down) to hit it 
back up. Getting multiple perfect shots results in a reward. Check 
games.txt for the whole deal.
     
     
                                     
                                Coming Up
     
     
     I want the next version to be version 3.0, and you know what that 
means; tons of new games, features, and enhancements. My plans include a 
stock market simulation, a text adventure game of some sort, a battle ship 
game, a computer opponent in Tic, more Point Rally games, a two player 
mode in DHL, and more! I can't promise anything, but I'll do my best in 
programming these new additions. Email me at daniel_zingaro@hotmail.com with 
any comments or suggestions. 3.0's gonna bring the notetakers to a new 
dimension!
